hello everyone it's elena and i'm back
with another video and i noticed that i
haven't done a q a in quite a while
so i asked you guys for your questions
on instagram and yeah let's do it
do you ever feel exhausted or
unmotivated to study yes
lots of the time i mean you don't wake
up every day and you're like
it's a great day to do work um you know
but um i have a list of you know things
that i want to achieve and a lot of
these things require a law degree
so um usually when i'm really motivated
i look at that list of goals that i want
to achieve
and that does help me a lot with getting
motivated but there are days where you
know you're just like at a moderation
low
um and that's okay that's perfectly
normal how do you take your notes they
look amazing
thank you so much that's really kind um
i guess you probably mean my revision
notes
which i make on my ipad and i just try
to make them look somewhat nice so
that i'm somewhat motivated to actually
look at them and revise um i
make all of these in good notes um and
if you want a tutorial on like how
exactly i make these notes
i have one on my channel i'm gonna link
it in the info box below or you can also
click on it up here
but yeah basically it's good notes and
then just lots of drawing adding
pictures and stuff
to make it look nice so that elena wants
to look at it later glad you chose
cambridge
yes i'm really glad that i chose
cambridge um for those of you who don't
know i ended up deciding between
cambridge and princeton
when i decided where to go for my
undergrad and honestly i'm really
grateful that i picked cambridge it
turned out to be the perfect university
for me and yes my first year was far
from perfect
but i think the amount of support that
i've gotten from the university when i
had a mental health issue
in my first year just chose me that i
picked the right place
and i have no way of saying you know
whether at princeton it would have been
the same in terms of support or anything
but i can say that the support that i
was given at cambridge was exactly what
i needed and so it was the right place
for me
and i really enjoy my degree and yeah
just
everything really worked out well where
do you mostly buy your clothes
um so i use an app called vintad where
you can buy secondhand clothes
and aside from that i usually end up at
zara or h m because they have things
that are my style and that are in my
student budget what do you do on your
free time from studying on weekends
this i make videos i edit them stuff
like that
aside from that i usually read a little
bit in whatever book that i'm currently
reading
and yeah just do whatever i want um like
i don't really have any plans for my
free time i mean it's meant to be free
time so
i really just do whatever i want to do
how are you
um i'm okay not great but okay
um now i'm someone who normally doesn't
mind being alone but when you're forced
to be alone all the time because of
lockdown and stuff
then um it starts to feel a bit like
being lonely
um so yeah it's not the best of times
um but i'm still in an okay headspace
it's just something that i've noticed
that has been weighing down my mood
just you know this constant just being
at home all the time and stuff
um at some point even as introverts are
starting to be like
this is enough but yeah
we're still staying home because that's
the responsible thing to do
why do you think you became such a good
student so fun fact
i was a really really bad student in
like the beginning of middle school
and the only reason why i changed is
because i started having a goal
and i was like okay i'm gonna work
really hard in all these subjects
so that i can study law and i did that
but before that i literally had zero
goals like no ambition
and so i just saw no reason for why i
should put any effort in these subjects
and that's why
i didn't do it would you like to do
youtube forever no
i think once i'm done with my university
journey i'll probably also stop making
youtube videos
so you know if i end up doing a master's
degree or a phd i may continue youtube
throughout that
but once i'm done with that i would
probably stop making youtube videos
simply because i created this channel to
talk about studying and university life
and you know when those things are no
longer really a part of my life then
i wouldn't really have much content for
this channel and
i wouldn't want to keep it going you
know not having
any great content up like i would just
want to stop at the right time
and you know just keep a nice archive of
these videos that i'm proud of
and yeah that's sort of how i think
um it will probably end but don't worry
i'm not thinking about leaving anytime
soon for now i'm really really happy
with having this channel i really enjoy
making content
and yeah not planning on leaving anytime
soon what is your favorite tv show or
netflix series
i really like the vampire diaries i
still rewatch that show at least once a
year and yet there are some bad seasons
but i think overall this show was just
you know
a good watch and it is still in my
opinion
enjoyable and yeah i just think overall
it was a pretty good show do you want to
continue your chinese studies
yes i actually signed up for another
chinese course so i'm
gonna do another chinese course in march
i did one last summer
and i'm so excited that i got into the
second course um
which is basically just a continuation
of my beginner's course level from the
summer
so yeah let's hope i haven't forgotten
everything what is your favorite thing
about this year abroad ps i love your
videos
thank you so much and um i think my
favorite thing about this year abroad
is that i get to be with my family
i didn't really expect that to be the
case but i am really really grateful for
it because i mean i
moved to boarding school when i was 16
years old and this is really the longest
time that i spent with my family in like
one continuous period of time
um since i was 16 so
i am really really grateful that i just
you know get to have that experience now
would you like to be a mother in the
future
absolutely not if there's one thing that
i've learned from my summer day care job
it's this
i don't like kids is it hard to study in
german after having neglected that
language
honestly yes and no yes because
i don't really know how to express my
opinions
and stuff like sometimes i'm just like
okay i have a question i know what i
want to ask but i can't put it into
words
um but since it's my native language
it's not that difficult to understand
the lessons like i understand everything
that the teacher is saying
i just sometimes don't know how to put
it into my own words
um but luckily i don't have a problem
with understanding it it's just
a problem of you know articulation on my
part
do you ever regret choosing law as your
specialization
um no i honestly don't think i've ever
regretted it it's a hard degree and
sometimes i'm like why are you doing
this to yourself
but it's also a very enjoyable degree so
i don't think i've ever
you know really regretted it how did you
apply for your main scholarship which is
not from
university so my ever maine scholarship
is from a german foundation called the
studio institute
and there are a few different ways into
the foundation but one is that your high
school recommends you to the foundation
and then they invite you to apply and
that's what happened with me
so basically they already sent you the
application you just fill it out
and send it back and then there's also a
selection weekend
and yeah after that they decide whether
you get in but you can also self-apply
and you can also get recommended by a
professor once you're in university
if any of you guys are interested in the
foundation i'm going to link it in the
info box below
i don't think this is a perfect
translation but um i think
um it's in english like how do you
manage to
calm down in the evening after uni um so
i guess you know we're
getting rid of the stress in your head
and stuff um
to be honest i don't have that much of a
problem with it simply because my brain
after 6 pm is just like yep night time
goodbye
and yeah then i just don't really think
about it anymore
um simply because i'm tired and i just
you know want to sit on my bed
watch some netflix or read a little bit
in my book and that's kind of it
which uni do you like better cambridge
or reagan's broke
um while i think both are great
universities i personally prefer
cambridge
because the teaching style is more what
i like
because i cambridge supervisions and so
you have a lot more close contact with
the teachers
and you know you can ask a lot more
questions during these supervisions you
dive into the topics a lot deeper
because you have a course for an entire
year and not just a semester
so yeah i just prefer like the teaching
model of cambridge
but reagan's work is a good university
as well
it's just a different style of teaching
and i think i vibe a little bit more
with the cambridge style who is your
inspiration in life
my mom did university being online
change your productivity level
yeah um i think you know everything
being online has just made it more
difficult for me to be productive
because i'm someone who very much relied
on
being in the library you know to be
productive that was my productive space
and it really just helped me to get out
of my room away from my bed and then do
my work somewhere else
i also found it really helpful to you
know have lectures that you have to show
up for
so you have a schedule you know you
don't feel like you could just
waste the day away and it wouldn't
matter and with online uni it sometimes
does feel like that um
so it is just harder because you have to
have a lot more self-discipline
and you can't go to places like the
library
um because lockdown and you can't go
to you know the library or something
because of lockdown um
so it definitely has been more difficult
for me
but at the end of the day i'm really
glad that i didn't have to do in-person
classes because i'm just
not sure if it would have been really
safe how do you experience studying
civil law after in combination with
common law
so the uk is a criminal jurisdiction so
they rely on case law
whereas germany is a civil jurisdiction
relying a lot on statute law
i personally prefer common law simply
because
it is in my opinion a little bit more
interesting to study
because for all the rules in your head
you have some interesting stories from
the case law in your head as well
and to me that makes it easier to
remember like i find it a lot harder to
just remember
a paragraph number from a certain
statute um
then if i have a case where i have a
story in my head attached to the rule
to me that's easier to remember but
that's just like a personal preference
given covet our exchange program's still
worth it i think it really depends on
your reasons for why you want to go on
an exchange
so for me personally my exchange is
still 100 worth it to me
because i went on an exchange to learn
more about german law
and i'm still getting that out of the
exchange now but i think you know if you
have other reasons that are really
important to you as well like for
example
wanting to be in a different country um
or you know
on a specific campus and stuff then i
think
it might not be the best time to go on
an exchange program but just one thing
to keep in mind
is that when everything is online it can
be quite hard to meet new people at best
um that's definitely like a big negative
for me with this exchange
but at the end of the day this year is
just very unpredictable
what's your favorite youtube channel um
it's an asmr channel
her channel is called gloss and tingles
asmr and
i just love watching her makeup videos
like i find him just very relaxing i get
these tingles on my head from them
and yeah i just like watching them to
calm down why did you choose st
john's i did not have a good reason for
picking my cambridge college because
i did not put any thought into that
choice like i literally just looked at a
drop down menu on you cars where you
apply
and saint john's and was listed as the
choice with the letter x
and i was like oh axe is a cool letter
i'm going to pick st
john's and that was my reason for
picking john's i hadn't even looked at a
picture of john's
i was very surprised to find out that
john's looks like hogwarts when i got in
because i hadn't known until then which
is so embarrassing
so don't do that okay actually research
the colleges
and make an informed choice about where
you end up i was so lucky to end up in
john's in this amazing place which
really suits me so well
but actually researched the colleges
beforehand
it is a good idea to do that have you
ever had a boyfriend
no do you regret doing the exchange here
during the pandemic
no i don't um i was actually given an
option not to do this year abroad
um during the summer so my university
said well normally
you know once you accept the place you
do have to go but because there's a
pandemic we are giving you an option to
say
you no longer want to do it but for me
it felt like the more responsible thing
to just stay in my home country germany
where i already was
um go to regensburg by car instead of
you know taking the train and a plane to
cambridge and you know them being in
this other place
um it just felt like that would be a lot
more travel and stuff than
me going to rickensburg and i mean i
ended up just basically being at home
um and that's okay but yeah overall it
just
felt like it was responsible for me to
just stay here when i could
um so i don't regret it i made that
choice very consciously and i'm still
getting a lot of you know german law
knowledge out of this exchange
but it is of course not exactly ideal
are you thinking of doing a phd after
you graduate or do you want to start to
work
um i do want to do a phd because i
just love the idea of you know really
diving deep into one topic
and researching that and becoming an
expert on it like
it just sounds very appealing to me how
long will your mom live at your
grandparents house
so for those of you who don't know my
mom went and helped my grandma with
caring for my grandpa because he got out
of a care home
and he was doing very bad and so
he just needed a lot more care than he
did before and my grandma wasn't used to
that so my mom was like well i'm going
to support you in the first few weeks
my mom has actually come back she was
there for four weeks um but
now she's here again and my grandma's
still adopting
but my grandpa is doing a lot better
which we are all really really grateful
for
do you study more after your life study
with me spanish ah
no um i am very tired at 6 p.m so
no more studying then i do sometimes do
some work beforehand
but definitely not after will your
grades during your exchange year count
towards your final grade in cambridge
no they won't um cambridge doesn't
accept these grades
so cambridge only uses their own grades
that they've given to you
for calculating your final grade so i
will get a transcript from reagan's work
but it will not count towards my degree
and yeah that's it thank you guys so
much for all your questions i hope you
guys enjoyed this video and have a nice
day
[Music]
bye
you